# Opcode Group 01 - SEQ_CmdSEQ2

Instructions in this opcode group seem to be related to branching instructions.

- [0100](#0100)
- [0101](#0101)
- [0102](#0102)
- [0103](#0103)
- [0104](#0104)
- [0105](#0105)
- [0106](#0106)
- [0107](#0107)
- [0108](#0108)
- [0132 - b](#0132---b)
- [0133 - beqz](#0133---beqz)
- [0134 - bnez](#0134---bnez)
- [0135 - bgtz](#0135---bgtz)
- [0136 - bgez](#0136---bgez)
- [0137 - bltz](#0137---bltz)
- [0138 - blez](#0138---blez)
- [0139 - bltz](#0139---bltz)
- [013A - bgez](#013A---bgez)
- [013B - bdnz](#013B---bdnz)
- [013C - bl](#013C---bl)
- [013D - beqzal](#013D---beqzal)
- [013E - bnezal](#013E---bnezal)
- [013F - bgtzal](#013F---bgtzal)
- [0140 - bgezal](#0140---bgezal)
- [0141 - bltzal](#0141---bltzal)
- [0142 - blezal](#0142---blezal)
- [0143 - bltzal](#0143---bltzal)
- [0144 - bgezal](#0144---bgezal)
- [0145 - blr](#0145---blr)
- [0146 - blreqz](#0146---blreqz)
- [0147 - blrnez](#0147---blrnez)
- [0148 - blrgtz](#0148---blrgtz)
- [0149 - blrgez](#0149---blrgez)
- [014A - blrltz](#014A---blrltz)
- [014B - blrlez](#014B---blrlez)
- [014C - blrltz](#014C---blrltz)
- [014D - blrgez](#014D---blrgez)
- [014E](#014E)
- [014F - blrdnz](#014F---blrdnz)
- [0150 - branch_table](#0150---branchtable)
- [0151 - branch_table_link](#0151---branchtablelink)

## 0100

- Operands: 1
- Terminate: Always

## 0101

- Operands: 0 or 1 (Based on `SEQ_RegCMD1`)
- Terminate: Always

## 0102

- Operands: 1

## 0103

- Operands: 1 or 2 (Based on `SEQ_RegCMD1`)

## 0104

- No parameters.

## 0105

- Operands: 0 or 1 (Based on `SEQ_RegCMD1`)

## 0106

- No parameters.
- Terminate: Sometimes

## 0107

- Operands: 0 or 1 (Based on `SEQ_RegCMD1`)
- Terminate: Sometimes

## 0108

- No parameters.
- Terminate: Sometimes

## 0132 - b

Branch.

Unconditional branch to the offset stored in `param1`.

- `param1`: The offset to branch to.

## 0133 - beqz

Branch if equal to zero.

Branch to the offset stored in `param1` if `cr == 0`.

- `param1`: The offset to branch to.

## 0134 - bnez

Branch if not equal to zero.

Branch to the offset stored in `param1` if `cr != 0`.

- `param1`: The offset to branch to.

## 0135 - bgtz

Branch if greater than zero.

Branch to the offset stored in `param1` if `cr > 0`.

- `param1`: The offset to branch to.

## 0136 - bgez

Branch if greater than or equal to zero.

Branch to the offset stored in `param1` if `cr >= 0`.

- `param1`: The offset to branch to.

## 0137 - bltz

Branch if less than zero.

Branch to the offset stored in `param1` if `cr < 0`.

- `param1`: The offset to branch to.

## 0138 - blez

Branch is less than or equal to zero.

Branch to the offset stored in `param1` if `cr <= 0`.

- `param1`: The offset to branch to.

## 0139 - bltz

Duplicate of [0137 - bltz](#0137---bltz)

## 013A - bgez

Duplicate of [0136 - bgez](#0136---bgez)

## 013B - bdnz

Branch decrement not zero.

Branch if `ctr` is less than 0. Otherwise, decrement `ctr` and if `ctr` is then not 0, branch. This is used for looping. For example, load 100 in `ctr` and using this opcode you can branch backwards to loop 100 times.

- `param1`: The offset to branch to.

## 013C - bl

Branch and link.

Push the return address to `sp` and unconditional branch to the offset stored in `param1`.

- `param1`: The offset to branch to.

## 013D - beqzal

Branch if equal to zero and link.

Push the return address to `sp` and branch to the offset stored in `param1` if `cr == 0`.

- `param1`: The offset to branch to.

## 013E - bnezal

Branch if not equal to zero and link.

Push the return address to `sp` and branch to the offset stored in `param1` if `cr != 0`.

- `param1`: The offset to branch to.

## 013F - bgtzal

Branch if greater than zero and link.

Push the return address to `sp` and branch to the offset stored in `param1` if `cr > 0`.

- `param1`: The offset to branch to.

## 0140 - bgezal

Branch if greater than or equal to zero and link.

Push the return address to `sp` and branch to the offset stored in `param1` if `cr >= 0`.

- `param1`: The offset to branch to.

## 0141 - bltzal

Branch if less than zero and link.

Push the return address to `sp` and branch to the offset stored in `param1` if `cr < 0`.

- `param1`: The offset to branch to.

## 0142 - blezal

Branch if less than or equal to zero and link.

Push the return address to `sp` and branch to the offset stored in `param1` if `cr <= 0`.

- `param1`: The offset to branch to.

## 0143 - bltzal

Duplicate of [0141 - bltzal](#0141---bltzal)

## 0144 - bgezal

Duplicate of [0140 - bgezal](#0140---bgezal)

## 0145 - blr

Branch and link return.

Pop the return address from `sp` and unconditional branch to it.

- Operands: 0

## 0146 - blreqz

Branch and link return if equal to zero.

Pop the return address from `sp` and branch to it if it is `== 0`.

- Operands: 0

## 0147 - blrnez

Branch and link return if not equal to zero.

Pop the return address from `sp` and branch to it if it is `!= 0`.

- Operands: 0

## 0148 - blrgtz

Branch and link return if greater than zero.

Pop the return address from `sp` and branch to it if it is `> 0`.

- Operands: 0

## 0149 - blrgez

Branch and link return if greater than or equal to zero.

Pop the return address from `sp` and branch to it if it is `>= 0`.

- Operands: 0

## 014A - blrltz

Branch and link return if less than zero.

Pop the return address from `sp` and branch to it if it is `< 0`.

- Operands: 0

## 014B - blrlez

Branch and link return if less than or equal to zero.

Pop the return address from `sp` and branch to it if it is `<= 0`.

- Operands: 0

## 014C - blrltz

Duplicate of [014A - blrltz](#014A---blrltz)

## 014D - blrgez

Duplicate of [0149 - blrgez](#0149---blrgez)

## 014E

Set the value returned by `SEQ_RegCMD1` to `ctr` and push the opcode after this one to the stack (`sp`).

## 014F - blrdnz

Branch and link return decrement not zero.

Branch and link return if `ctr` is less than 0. Otherwise, decrement `ctr` and if `ctr` is then not 0, branch and link return. This is used for looping. For example, load 100 in `ctr` and using this opcode you can return from the current subroutine 100 times; after 100 times you won't return and will then run anything after this opcode.

- Operands: 0

## 0150 - branch_table

An opcode to **branch** based on a [Branch Table](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Branch_table).

The `branch_table` opcode will call `SEQ_RegCMD1` and use that as the `param1`. Following the 4-byte opcode is the `number_of_branches` in the table as a 4-byte word.
Following that, are `number_of_branches` many 4-byte words containing SEQ offsets to each branch's code. Following that, is the code for each branch.
The offset with an index matching `param1` will be selected and **branched to**.

If `param1` is outside the range of branch table indices OR the SEQ offset for the index is 0, it will simply execute the code immediately following the SEQ offsets.

- `param1`: The index of the branch table to execute.

### Example Disassembly

```
07D20 | branch_table gpr19 (6 branches): 0x7D40 0x7D4C 0x7D58 0x7D64 0x7D70 0x7D7C {01500013 00000006 00007D40 00007D4C 00007D58 00007D64 00007D70 00007D7C}
07D40 | op_1107 0x4000000 {1107003F 04000000}
07D48 | blr 01450000
07D4C | op_1107 0x8000000 {1107003F 08000000}
07D54 | blr 01450000
07D58 | op_1107 0x10000000 {1107003F 10000000}
07D60 | blr 01450000
07D64 | op_1107 0x20000000 {1107003F 20000000}
07D6C | blr 01450000
07D70 | op_1107 0x40000000 {1107003F 40000000}
07D78 | blr 01450000
07D7C | op_1107 0x80000000 {1107003F 80000000}
07D84 | blr 01450000
```

The above example starts with the `branch_table` opcode which is bytes `0x01500013`. The `0x13` at the end says to use `gpr19` as `param1`. This is followed by `0x00000006` which means there are six offsets following it. The offsets respectively are `0x7D40 0x7D4C 0x7D58 0x7D64 0x7D70 0x7D7C`. These bytes are then followed by the code for each branch.

## 0151 - branch_table_link

An opcode to **branch and link** based on a [Branch Table](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Branch_table).

The `branch_table` opcode will call `SEQ_RegCMD1` and use that as the `param1`. Following the 4-byte opcode is the `number_of_branches` in the table as a 4-byte word.
Following that, are `number_of_branches` many 4-byte words containing SEQ offsets to each branch's code. Following that, is the code for each branch.
The offset with an index matching `param1` will be selected and **branch and linked to**.

If `param1` is outside the range of branch table indices OR the SEQ offset for the index is 0, it will simply execute the code immediately following the SEQ offsets.

- `param1`: The index of the branch table to execute.
