# Opcode Group 04

- [0400 - debug04](#0400---debug04)
- [0401](#0401)
- [0402 - mov](#0402---mov)
- [0403 - andws](#0403---andws)
- [0404 - nimply](#0404---nimply)
- [0405 - inc](#0405---inc)
- [0406 - dec](#0406---dec)
- [0407 - add](#0407---add)
- [0408 - sub](#0408---sub)
- [0409 - mul](#0409---mul)
- [040A - div](#040A---div)
- [040B - shl](#040B---shl)
- [040C - shr](#040C---shr)
- [040D - and](#040D---and)
- [040E - or](#040E---or)
- [040F - xor](#040F---xor)
- [0410 - not](#0410---not)
- [0411 - subws](#0411---subws)
- [0412 - chs](#0412---chs)
- [0413 - cuhw](#0413---cuhw)
- [0414](#0414)
- [0415](#0415)
- [0416](#0416)
- [0417](#0417)
- [0418](#0418)

Instructions in this opcode group seem to be related to comparing values. These will set values to the Comparison Register (`cr`). Opcodes in this opcode group are often followed by opcodes from [opcode group 01](01.md), as the comparison happens in opcode group 04 and the branch happens in opcode group 01.

This opcode group is primarily for `int` values. [Opcode group 08](08.md) is for `float` values.

## 0400 - debug04

Debug `sprintf` the given parameter using the print format `"0x%x(%d)"`.

## 0401

## 0402 - movc

Move integer (and compare).

Get two integers from `seq_get_ops`. Move the second into the first (`first = second`). Store the first value into `cr`.

## 0403 - andws

Integer logical and (without store).

Get two integers from `seq_get_ops`. Logical `and` the first value with the second value and store the result in `cr` (`cr = first & second`).

## 0404 - nimply

Integer non-implication.

Get two integers from `seq_get_ops`. Logical `not` the second value and logical `and` the result with the `first`; store this new result into the first (`first = first & ~second`). Store the result into `cr`.

## 0405 - inc

Integer increment.

Get one integer from `seq_get_op`. Increment and store it (`value = value++`). Store the result into `cr`.

## 0406 - dec

Integer decrement.

Get one integer from `seq_get_op`. Decrement and store it (`value = value--`). Store the result into `cr`.

## 0407 - add

Integer add.

Get two integers from `seq_get_ops`. Add them and store the result in the first (`first = first + second`). Store the new value into `cr`.

## 0408 - sub

Integer subtract.

Get two integers from `seq_get_ops`. Subtract them and store the result in the first (`first = first - second`). Store the new value into `cr`.

## 0409 - mul

Integer multiply.

Get two integers from `seq_get_ops`. Multiply them and store the result in the first (`first = first * second`). Store the new value into `cr`.

## 040A - div

Integer divide.

Get two integers from `seq_get_ops`. Divide them and store the result in the first (`first = first / second`). Store the new value into `cr`.

## 040B - shl

Integer shift left.

Get two integers from `seq_get_ops`. Shift the first value left by the second value and store the result in the first (`first = first << second`). Store the new value into `cr`.

## 040C - shr

Integer shift right.

Get two integers from `seq_get_ops`. Shift the first value right by the second value and store the result in the first (`first = first >> second`). Store the new value into `cr`.

## 040D - and

Integer logical and.

Get two integers from `seq_get_ops`. Logical `and` the first value with the second value and store the result in the first (`first = first & second`). Store the new value into `cr`.

## 040E - or

Integer logical or.

Get two integers from `seq_get_ops`. Logical `or` the first value with the second value and store the result in the first (`first = first | second`). Store the new value into `cr`.

## 040F - xor

Integer logical xor.

Get two integers from `seq_get_ops`. Logical `xor` the first value with the second value and store the result in the first (`first = first ^ second`). Store the new value into `cr`.

## 0410 - not

Integer logical not.

Get two integers from `seq_get_ops`. Logical `not` the second value and store the result in the first (`first = ~second`). Store the new value into `cr`.

## 0411 - subws

Integer subtraction (without store).

Get two integers from `seq_get_ops`. Subtract them and store the result in `cr` ((`cr = first - second`)).

## 0412 - chs

Integer change sign.

Get two integers from `seq_get_ops`. Change the sign of the second value and store the result in the first (`first = -(second)`). Store the new value into `cr`.

## 0413 - cuhw

Integer clear upper half-word.

Get two integers from `seq_get_ops`. Clear the upper half-word of the second and store it in the first (`first = (second << 0x10 | second >> 0x10) >> 0x10`)

## 0414

## 0415

## 0416

## 0417

## 0418
