# Opcode Group 08 - SEQ_CmdF

Float operations (4 bytes).

- [0800 - debug08](#0800---debug08)
- [0801 - fmovc](#0801---fmovc)
- [0802 - fmov](#0802---fmov)
- [0803 - fadd](#0803---fadd)
- [0804 - fsub](#0804---fsub)
- [0805 - fmul](#0805---fmul)
- [0806 - fdiv](#0806---fdiv)
- [0807 - fcom](#0807---fcom)
- [0808 - fchs](#0808---fchs)
- [0809 - fsqrt](#0809---fsqrt)
- [080A - frsqrt](#080A---frsqrt])
- [080B](#080B)
- [080C](#080C)
- [080D](#080D)
- [080E](#080E)
- [080F](#080F)
- [0810](#0810)
- [0811](#0811)
- [0812 - fabs](#0812---fabs)

Instructions in this opcode group seem to be related to comparing values. These will set values to the Comparison Register (`cr`). Opcodes in this opcode group are often followed by opcodes from [opcode group 01](01.md), as the comparison happens in opcode group 04 and the branch happens in opcode group 01.

This opcode group is primarily for `float` values.

## 0800 - debug08

Unknown debug print using `sprintf`.

## 0801 - f_movc

Float move (and compare).

Get two floats from `SEQ_RegCMD2`. Copy the second into the first. Load the first into `cr`.

## 0802 - f_mov

Float move.

Get two floats from `SEQ_RegCMD2`. Copy the second into the first.

## 0803 - f_add

Float add.

Get two floats from `SEQ_RegCMD2`. Add them and store them in the first.

## 0804 - f_sub

Float subtract.

Get two floats from `SEQ_RegCMD2`. Subtract them and store them in the first.

## 0805 - f_mul

Float multiply.

Get two floats from `SEQ_RegCMD2`. Multiply them and store them in the first.

## 0806 - f_div

Float divide.

Get two floats from `SEQ_RegCMD2`. Divide them and store them in the first.

## 0807 - f_com

Float compare.

Get two floats from `SEQ_RegCMD2`. If the first is larger than the second, load 1 into `cr`. If the second is larger than the first, load -1 into `cr`. If they are the same (epsilon of 0.0001), load 0 into `cr`.

## 0808 - f_chs

Float change sign.

Get two floats from `SEQ_RegCMD2`. Change the sign of the second and store it in the first.

## 0809 - f_sqrt

Float square root.

Get two floats from `SEQ_RegCMD2`. Find the square root of the second and store it in the first.

Performs a Reciprocal Square Root Estimate. The `frsqrte` PowerPC instruction generates an estimate of the reciprocal square root, accurate to 1 part in 32. Greater accuracy is desired, so this result serves  as  the  initial  seed  for  a  **Newton-Raphson approximation algorithm**.

## 080A - f_rsqrt

Float reciprocal (inverse) square root.

Get two floats from `SEQ_RegCMD2`. Find the reciprocal (inverse) square root of the second and store it in the first.

Performs a Reciprocal Square Root Estimate. The `frsqrte` PowerPC instruction generates an estimate of the reciprocal square root, accurate to 1 part in 32. Greater accuracy is desired, so this result serves  as  the  initial  seed  for  a  **Newton-Raphson approximation algorithm**.

## 080B

## 080C

## 080D

## 080E

## 080F

## 0810

## 0811

## 0812 - f_abs

Float absolute value.

Get two floats from `SEQ_RegCMD2`. Find the absolute value of the first and store it into the second.
