# Opcode Group 0C - SEQ_CmdFM

Matrix (float matrix?) operations. Extensively calls the **mtx** library, which is for matrix operations.

- [0C00 - mtx_debug](#0C00---mtx_debug)
- [0C01 - mtx_copy](#0C01---mtx_copy)
- [0C02 - mtx_concat](#0C02---mtx_concat)
- [0C03 - mtx_transpose](#0C03---mtx_transpose)
- [0C04 - mtx_inverse](#0C04---mtx_inverse)
- [0C05](#0C05)
- [0C06 - mtx_identity](#0C06---mtx_identity)
- [0C07](#0C07)
- [0C08](#0C08)
- [0C09 - mtx_scale](#0C09---mtx_scale)

## 0C00 - mtx_debug

Multiple debug `sprintf` the given parameter using the print format `"[%4.2f,%4.2f,%4.2f,%4.2f]"`.

## 0C01 - mtx_copy

Matrix copy.

Calls `mtx::PSMTXCopy( const Mtx src, Mtx dst )`. The function copies the contents of src into dst. `op2` is the source and `op1` is the destination.

- Two operands from `SEQ_RegCMD2`.
- Stores result in the first operand.

```c
mtx::PSMTXCopy(op2, op1)
```

## 0C02 - mtx_concat

Matrix concatenate.

Calls `mtx::PSMTXConcat( const Mtx a, const Mtx b, Mtx ab )`. The function multiplies `(a x b)` and places the result in `ab`. Matrices are treated as row-major for multiplication purposes: `element [row][col] of ab = a [row] x b [col]`. `op2` is `a`, `sp` is `b`, and `op1` is the output `ab`.

- Two operands from `SEQ_RegCMD2` and pops one value from the stack register `sp`.
- Stores result in the first operand.

```c
mtx::PSMTXConcat(op2, *sp, op1)
sp++
```

## 0C03 - mtx_transpose

Matrix transpose.

Calls `mtx::PSMTXTranspose( const Mtx src, Mtx xPose )`. The function copies the transpose of `src` into `xPose`. `src` is unaffected unless `src=xPose`. To transpose a 3x4 matrix, transpose the 3x3 rotation sub-matrix of `src` and set the fourth column to (0,0,0). `op2` is the `src` and `op1` is the `xPose` output.

A transpose operation causes the loss of the original `src` translation term; however, this should not be a problem because this function's intended use is for the creation of inverse-transpose matrices for normal transformations. Since these are rotation matrices applied to vectors, a translation term is not required.

- Two operands from `SEQ_RegCMD2`.
- Stores result in the first operand.

```c
mtx::PSMTXTranspose(op2, op1)
```

## 0C04 - mtx_inverse

Matrix inverse.

Calls `mtx::PSMTXInverse( const Mtx src, Mtx inv )`. The function computes a fast inverse of a 3x4 matrix. The function should be used whenever the inverse of a general 3x4 matrix is required. `op2` is the `src` and `op1` is the `inv`.

- Two operands from `SEQ_RegCMD2`.
- Stores result in the first operand.

```c
mtx::PSMTXInverse(op2, op1)
```

## 0C05

## 0C06 - mtx_identity

Matrix identity.

Calls `mtx::PSMTXIdentity ( Mtx m )`. This function sets the contents of m to an identity matrix. `op1` is `m`.

- One operand from `SEQ_RegCMD1`.
- Stores result in the first operand.

```c
mtx::PSMTXIdentity(op1)
```

## 0C07

## 0C08

## 0C09 - mtx_scale

Scale a matrix.

First creates an identity matrix. In memory, an identity matrix looks like (represented as floats):

```
1, 0, 0, 0
0, 1, 0, 0
0, 0, 1, 0
```

There is a fourth column as that is how GameCube Mtx structs are defined. There is an implied fourth row of (0, 0, 0, 1).
A pointer to a fvec is popped from `sp`, and the identity matrix is modified with the x, y, and z like so:

```
x, 0, 0, 0
0, y, 0, 0
0, 0, z, 0
```

It then calls `mtx::PSMTXConcat( const Mtx a, const Mtx b, Mtx ab )` where `a` is the matrix in `op2`, `b` is the modified identity matrix, and `ab` is `op1`.
This is useful to scale a matrix, such as using the vector `(1.1, 1.1, 1.1)` to make the input matrix slightly larger.

- Two operands from `SEQ_RegCMD2` and pops one value from the stack register `sp`.
- Stores result in the first operand.

```c
mtx::PSMTXIdentity(identity)
identity[0][0] = *sp->x
identity[1][1] = *sp->y
identity[2][2] = *sp->z
mtx::PSMTXConcat(op2, identity, op1)
sp++
```
